tensorflow/lite/micro/CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Resources

A
[TF Lite Micro Github issue](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/issues/new?labels=comp%3Amicro&template=70-tflite-micro-issue.md)
should be the primary method of getting in touch with the TensorFlow Lite Micro
(TFLM) team.

The following resources may also be useful:

1.  SIG Micro [email group](https://groups.google.com/a/tensorflow.org/g/micro)
    and
    [monthly meetings](http://doc/1YHq9rmhrOUdcZnrEnVCWvd87s2wQbq4z17HbeRl-DBc).

1.  SIG Micro [gitter chat room](https://gitter.im/tensorflow/sig-micro).

# Contributing Guidelines

We look forward to your contributions to the TensorFlow Lite Micro codebase and
provide guidelines with the goal of enabling community contributions while still
maintaining code health, maintainability, and consistency in style.

Please note that while these guidelines may seem onerous to some developers,
they are derived from Google's software engineering best practices.

Before we describe project-specific guidelines, we recommend that external
contributors read these tips from the Google Testing Blog:

*   [Code Health: Providing Context with Commit Messages and Bug Reports](https://testing.googleblog.com/2017/09/code-health-providing-context-with.html)
*   [Code Health: Understanding Code In Review](https://testing.googleblog.com/2018/05/code-health-understanding-code-in-review.html)
*   [Code Health: Too Many Comments on Your Code Reviews?](https://testing.googleblog.com/2017/06/code-health-too-many-comments-on-your.html)
*   [Code Health: To Comment or Not to Comment?](https://testing.googleblog.com/2017/07/code-health-to-comment-or-not-to-comment.html)

We also recommend that contributors take a look at the
[Tensorflow Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## General Pull Request Guidelines

We strongly recommend that contributors:

1.  Initiate a conversation with the TFLM team via a
    [TF Lite Micro Github issue](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/issues/new?labels=comp%3Amicro&template=70-tflite-micro-issue.md)
    as early as possible.

    *   This enables us to give guidance on how to proceed, prevent duplicated
        effort and also point to alternatives as well as context if we are not
        able to accept a particular contribution at a given time.

    *   Ideally, you should make an issue ***before*** starting to work on a
        pull request and provide context on both what you want to contribute and
        why.

1.  Once step 1. is complete and it is determined that a PR from an external
    contributor is the way to go, please follow these guidelines from
    [Google's Engineering Practices documentation](https://google.github.io/eng-practices/):

    *   [Send Small Pull Requests](https://google.github.io/eng-practices/review/developer/small-cls.html)

        *   If a pull request is doing more than one thing, the reviewer will
            request that it be broken up into two or more PRs.

    *   [Write Good Pull Request Descriptions](https://google.github.io/eng-practices/review/developer/cl-descriptions.html)

        *   We require that all PR descriptions link to the github issue created
            in step 1.

        *   While github offers flexibility in linking
            [commits and issues](https://github.blog/2011-04-09-issues-2-0-the-next-generation/#commits-issues),
            we require that the PR description have a separate line with either
            `Fixes #nn` (if the PR fixes the issue) or `Issue #nn` if the PR
            addresses some aspect of an issue without fixing it.

        *   We will be adding internal checks that automate this requirement by
            matching the PR description to the regexp: `(Fixes|Issue) #`

## Guidlines for Specific Contribution Categories

We provide some additional guidelines for different categories of contributions.

### Bug Fixes

Pull requests that fix bugs are always welcome and often uncontroversial, unless
there is a conflict between different requirements from the platform, or if
fixing a bug needs a bigger architectural change.

1.  Create a
    [TF Lite Micro Github issue](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/issues/new?labels=comp%3Amicro&template=70-tflite-micro-issue.md)
    to determine the scope of the bug fix.
1.  Send a PR (if that is determined to be the best path forward).

### Reference Kernel Implementations

Pull requests that port reference kernels from TF Lite Mobile to TF Lite Micro
are welcome once we have enouch context from the contributor on why the
additional kernel is needed.

1.  Please create a
    [TF Lite Micro Github issue](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/issues/new?labels=comp%3Amicro&template=70-tflite-micro-issue.md)
    before starting on any such PRs with as much context as possible, such as:

    *   What is the model architecture?
    *   What is the application that you are targetting?
    *   What embedded target(s) are you planning to run on?
    *   Motivate your use-case and the need for adding support for this
        additional OP.

1.  In the interest of having
    [small pull requests](https://google.github.io/eng-practices/review/developer/small-cls.html),
    limit each pull request to porting a single kernel (and the corresponding
    test).

1.  TODO(b/165627437): Create and link to a guide to porting reference ops.

### Optimized Kernel Implementations

In order to have the TFLM codebase be a central repository of optimized kernel
implementations, we would like to make some improvements to the current
infrastructure to enable adding and maintaining optimized kernel implementations
in a scalable way.

Until that work is complete, we are requesting a ***pause*** on contributions that
add new optimized kernel implementations. We plan to make these improvements by
October 2020 and will provide additional guidelines at that time.

*   If you would like to have an exception to this pause, with the understanding
    that your optimized kernels will break as we improve the underlying
    framework, then please contact the TFLM team and we can figure out some
    middle ground.

*   Every optimized kernel directory must have a README.md with the github IDs
    of the maintainers and any other relevant documentation. PRs that add
    maintainers to the existing optimized kernels are always welcome.

### New Target / Platform / IDE / Examples

As discussed in the
[SIG-micro Aug 12, 2020 meeting](http://doc/1YHq9rmhrOUdcZnrEnVCWvd87s2wQbq4z17HbeRl-DBc),
we are currently ***pausing*** accepting pull requests that add new targets,
platforms, IDE integration or examples while we revisit some of the
infrastructure to enable us to make this process easier and more scalable.

In the meantime, snapshotting and/or forking the tensorflow repo could be a
viable way to prototype platform support.

Having said that, we still invite
[TF Lite Micro Github issues](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/issues/new?labels=comp%3Amicro&template=70-tflite-micro-issue.md)
on this topic as we would like to enable such integration in the future.

### New Features

As discussed in the
[SIG-micro Aug 12, 2020 meeting](http://doc/1YHq9rmhrOUdcZnrEnVCWvd87s2wQbq4z17HbeRl-DBc),
we are currently ***pausing*** accepting pull requests that add new features while
we revisit some of the infrastructure to enable us to make this process easier
and more scalable.

Having said that, we still invite feature requests via
[TF Lite Micro Github issues](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/issues/new?labels=comp%3Amicro&template=70-tflite-micro-issue.md)
to determine if the requested feature aligns with the TFLM roadmap.

Commit message:

Update guidance to use the SIG micro group to discuss exceptions to pause on accepting optimized kernel PRs.
PiperOrigin-RevId: 328240994
Change-Id: I5b5a58ae196cc5f9672dfad2e78459f69369f717

tensorflow/lite/micro/CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Resources

A
[TF Lite Micro Github issue](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/issues/new?labels=comp%3Amicro&template=70-tflite-micro-issue.md)
should be the primary method of getting in touch with the TensorFlow Lite Micro
(TFLM) team.

The following resources may also be useful:

1.  SIG Micro [email group](https://groups.google.com/a/tensorflow.org/g/micro)
    and
    [monthly meetings](http://doc/1YHq9rmhrOUdcZnrEnVCWvd87s2wQbq4z17HbeRl-DBc).

1.  SIG Micro [gitter chat room](https://gitter.im/tensorflow/sig-micro).

# Contributing Guidelines

We look forward to your contributions to the TensorFlow Lite Micro codebase and
provide guidelines with the goal of enabling community contributions while still
maintaining code health, maintainability, and consistency in style.

Please note that while these guidelines may seem onerous to some developers,
they are derived from Google's software engineering best practices.

Before we describe project-specific guidelines, we recommend that external
contributors read these tips from the Google Testing Blog:

*   [Code Health: Providing Context with Commit Messages and Bug Reports](https://testing.googleblog.com/2017/09/code-health-providing-context-with.html)
*   [Code Health: Understanding Code In Review](https://testing.googleblog.com/2018/05/code-health-understanding-code-in-review.html)
*   [Code Health: Too Many Comments on Your Code Reviews?](https://testing.googleblog.com/2017/06/code-health-too-many-comments-on-your.html)
*   [Code Health: To Comment or Not to Comment?](https://testing.googleblog.com/2017/07/code-health-to-comment-or-not-to-comment.html)

We also recommend that contributors take a look at the
[Tensorflow Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## General Pull Request Guidelines

We strongly recommend that contributors:

1.  Initiate a conversation with the TFLM team via a
    [TF Lite Micro Github issue](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/issues/new?labels=comp%3Amicro&template=70-tflite-micro-issue.md)
    as early as possible.

    *   This enables us to give guidance on how to proceed, prevent duplicated
        effort and also point to alternatives as well as context if we are not
        able to accept a particular contribution at a given time.

    *   Ideally, you should make an issue ***before*** starting to work on a
        pull request and provide context on both what you want to contribute and
        why.

1.  Once step 1. is complete and it is determined that a PR from an external
    contributor is the way to go, please follow these guidelines from
    [Google's Engineering Practices documentation](https://google.github.io/eng-practices/):

    *   [Send Small Pull Requests](https://google.github.io/eng-practices/review/developer/small-cls.html)

        *   If a pull request is doing more than one thing, the reviewer will
            request that it be broken up into two or more PRs.

    *   [Write Good Pull Request Descriptions](https://google.github.io/eng-practices/review/developer/cl-descriptions.html)

        *   We require that all PR descriptions link to the github issue created
            in step 1.

        *   While github offers flexibility in linking
            [commits and issues](https://github.blog/2011-04-09-issues-2-0-the-next-generation/#commits-issues),
            we require that the PR description have a separate line with either
            `Fixes #nn` (if the PR fixes the issue) or `Issue #nn` if the PR
            addresses some aspect of an issue without fixing it.

        *   We will be adding internal checks that automate this requirement by
            matching the PR description to the regexp: `(Fixes|Issue) #`

## Guidelines for Specific Contribution Categories

We provide some additional guidelines for different categories of contributions.

### Bug Fixes

Pull requests that fix bugs are always welcome and often uncontroversial, unless
there is a conflict between different requirements from the platform, or if
fixing a bug needs a bigger architectural change.

1.  Create a
    [TF Lite Micro Github issue](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/issues/new?labels=comp%3Amicro&template=70-tflite-micro-issue.md)
    to determine the scope of the bug fix.
1.  Send a PR (if that is determined to be the best path forward).

### Reference Kernel Implementations

Pull requests that port reference kernels from TF Lite Mobile to TF Lite Micro
are welcome once we have enouch context from the contributor on why the
additional kernel is needed.

1.  Please create a
    [TF Lite Micro Github issue](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/issues/new?labels=comp%3Amicro&template=70-tflite-micro-issue.md)
    before starting on any such PRs with as much context as possible, such as:

    *   What is the model architecture?
    *   What is the application that you are targetting?
    *   What embedded target(s) are you planning to run on?
    *   Motivate your use-case and the need for adding support for this
        additional OP.

1.  In the interest of having
    [small pull requests](https://google.github.io/eng-practices/review/developer/small-cls.html),
    limit each pull request to porting a single kernel (and the corresponding
    test).

1.  TODO(b/165627437): Create and link to a guide to porting reference ops.

### Optimized Kernel Implementations

In order to have the TFLM codebase be a central repository of optimized kernel
implementations, we would like to make some improvements to the current
infrastructure to enable adding and maintaining optimized kernel implementations
in a scalable way.

Until that work is complete, we are requesting a ***pause*** on contributions that
add new optimized kernel implementations. We plan to make these improvements by
October 2020 and will provide additional guidelines at that time.

*   If you would like to have an exception to this pause, with the understanding
    that your optimized kernels will break as we improve the underlying
    framework, then please send an email to the [SIG Micro email
    group](https://groups.google.com/a/tensorflow.org/g/micro) to figure out
    a middle ground.

*   Every optimized kernel directory must have a README.md with the github IDs
    of the maintainers and any other relevant documentation. PRs that add
    maintainers to the existing optimized kernels are always welcome.

### New Target / Platform / IDE / Examples

As discussed in the
[SIG-micro Aug 12, 2020 meeting](http://doc/1YHq9rmhrOUdcZnrEnVCWvd87s2wQbq4z17HbeRl-DBc),
we are currently ***pausing*** accepting pull requests that add new targets,
platforms, IDE integration or examples while we revisit some of the
infrastructure to enable us to make this process easier and more scalable.

In the meantime, snapshotting and/or forking the tensorflow repo could be a
viable way to prototype platform support.

Having said that, we still invite
[TF Lite Micro Github issues](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/issues/new?labels=comp%3Amicro&template=70-tflite-micro-issue.md)
on this topic as we would like to enable such integration in the future.

### New Features

As discussed in the
[SIG-micro Aug 12, 2020 meeting](http://doc/1YHq9rmhrOUdcZnrEnVCWvd87s2wQbq4z17HbeRl-DBc),
we are currently ***pausing*** accepting pull requests that add new features while
we revisit some of the infrastructure to enable us to make this process easier
and more scalable.

Having said that, we still invite feature requests via
[TF Lite Micro Github issues](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/issues/new?labels=comp%3Amicro&template=70-tflite-micro-issue.md)
to determine if the requested feature aligns with the TFLM roadmap.
