tensorflow/lite/g3doc/convert/metadata.md, before:

# Adding metadata to TensorFlow Lite model

Note: TensorFlow Lite Metadata is in experimental (beta) phase.

TensorFlow Lite metadata provides a standard for model descriptions. The
metadata is an important source of knowledge about what the model does and its
input / output information. The metadata consists of both

*   human readable parts which convey the best practice when using the model,
    and
*   machine readable parts that can be leveraged by code generators, such as
    [the TensorFlow Lite Android code generator](../guide/codegen.md).

## Setup the metadata tools

Before adding metadata to your model, you will need to a Python programming
environment setup for running TensorFlow. There is a detailed guide on how to
set this up [here](https://www.tensorflow.org/install).

After setup the Python programming environment, you will need to install
additional tooling:

```
pip install tflite-support
```

TensorFlow Lite metadata tooling supports both Python 2 and Python 3.

## Adding metadata

There are three parts to the
[model metadata](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/master/tensorflow/lite/experimental/support/metadata/metadata_schema.fbs):

1.  **Model information** - Overall description of the model as well as items
    such as licence terms.
2.  **Input information** - Description of the inputs and pre-processing
    required such as normalization.
3.  **Output information** - Description of the output and post-processing
    required such as mapping to labels.

### Supported Input / Output types

TensorFlow Lite metadata for input and output are not designed with specific
model types in mind but rather input and output types. It does not matter what
the model functionally does, as long as the input and output types consists of
the following or a combination of the following, it is supported by TensorFlow
Lite metadata:

*   Feature - Numbers which are unsigned integers or float32.
*   Image - Metadata currently supports RGB and greyscale images.
*   Bounding box - Rectangular shape bounding boxes. The schema supports
    [a variety of numbering schemes](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/268853ee81edab09e07f455cc918f7ef9a421485/tensorflow/lite/experimental/support/metadata/metadata_schema.fbs#L165).

### Examples

Note: The export directory specified has to exist before you run the script, it
does not get created as part of the process.

You can find examples on how the metadata should be populated for different
types of models here:

#### Image Classification

Download the script
[here](https://github.com/tensorflow/examples/tree/master/lite/examples/image_classification/metadata/metadata_writer_for_image_classifier.py)
and run the script like this:

```
python ./metadata_writer_for_image_classifier.py \
    --model_file=./model_without_metadata/mobilenet_v1_0.75_160_quantized.tflite \
    --label_file=./model_without_metadata/labels.txt \
    --export_directory=model_with_metadata
```

The rest of this guide will highlight some of the key sections in the Image
Classification example to illustrate the key elements.

### Deep dive into the Image Classification example

#### Model Information

Metadata starts by creating a new model info:

```python
from tflite_support import flatbuffers
from tflite_support import metadata as _metadata
from tflite_support import metadata_schema_py_generated as _metadata_fb

""" ... """
"""Creates the metadata for an image classifier."""

# Creates model info.
model_meta = _metadata_fb.ModelMetadataT()
model_meta.name = "MobileNetV1 image classifier"
model_meta.description = ("Identify the most prominent object in the "
                          "image from a set of 1,001 categories such as "
                          "trees, animals, food, vehicles, person etc.")
model_meta.version = "v1"
model_meta.author = "TensorFlow"
model_meta.license = ("Apache License. Version 2.0 "
                      "http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.")
```

#### Input / output information

This describe your model's input and output signature and it maybe used by
automatic code generators to create pre- and post- processing code. To create an
input or output information about a tensor:

```python
# Creates input info.
input_meta = _metadata_fb.TensorMetadataT()

# Creates output info.
output_meta = _metadata_fb.TensorMetadataT()
```

#### Image Input

Image is a common input type for machine learning. TensorFlow Lite metadata
supports information such as colorspace and pre-processing information such as
normalization. One thing that does not required manual input is the dimension of
the image as this is already provided by the shape of the input tensor and can
be automatically inferred.

```python
input_meta.name = "image"
input_meta.description = (
    "Input image to be classified. The expected image is {0} x {1}, with "
    "three channels (red, blue, and green) per pixel. Each value in the "
    "tensor is a single byte between 0 and 255.".format(160, 160))
input_meta.content = _metadata_fb.ContentT()
input_meta.content.contentProperties = _metadata_fb.ImagePropertiesT()
input_meta.content.contentProperties.colorSpace = (
    _metadata_fb.ColorSpaceType.RGB)
input_meta.content.contentPropertiesType = (
    _metadata_fb.ContentProperties.ImageProperties)
input_normalization = _metadata_fb.ProcessUnitT()
input_normalization.optionsType = (
    _metadata_fb.ProcessUnitOptions.NormalizationOptions)
input_normalization.options = _metadata_fb.NormalizationOptionsT()
input_normalization.options.mean = [127.5]
input_normalization.options.std = [127.5]
input_meta.processUnits = [input_normalization]
input_stats = _metadata_fb.StatsT()
input_stats.max = [255]
input_stats.min = [0]
input_meta.stats = input_stats
```

#### Label output

Label can be mapped to an output tensor via an associated file using
`TENSOR_AXIS_LABELS`.

```Python
# Creates output info.
output_meta = _metadata_fb.TensorMetadataT()
output_meta.name = "probability"
output_meta.description = "Probabilities of the 1001 labels respectively."
output_meta.content = _metadata_fb.ContentT()
output_meta.content.content_properties = _metadata_fb.FeaturePropertiesT()
output_meta.content.contentPropertiesType = (
    _metadata_fb.ContentProperties.FeatureProperties)
output_stats = _metadata_fb.StatsT()
output_stats.max = [1.0]
output_stats.min = [0.0]
output_meta.stats = output_stats
label_file = _metadata_fb.AssociatedFileT()
label_file.name = os.path.basename("your_path_to_label_file")
label_file.description = "Labels for objects that the model can recognize."
label_file.type = _metadata_fb.AssociatedFileType.TENSOR_AXIS_LABELS
output_meta.associatedFiles = [label_file]
```

#### Put it all together

The following code pull the model information together with the input and output
information:

```python
# Creates subgraph info.
subgraph = _metadata_fb.SubGraphMetadataT()
subgraph.inputTensorMetadata = [input_meta]
subgraph.outputTensorMetadata = [output_meta]
model_meta.subgraphMetadata = [subgraph]

b = flatbuffers.Builder(0)
b.Finish(
    model_meta.Pack(b),
    _metadata.MetadataPopulator.METADATA_FILE_IDENTIFIER)
metadata_buf = b.Output()
```

Once the data structure is ready, the writing of the metadata into the tflite
file is done via the `populate` method:

```python
populator = _metadata.MetadataPopulator.with_model_file(model_file)
populator.load_metadata_buffer(metadata_buf)
populator.load_associated_files(["your_path_to_label_file"])
populator.populate()
```

#### Verify the metadata

You can read back the metadata in a tflite file using the `MetadataDisplayer`:

```Python
displayer = _metadata.MetadataDisplayer.with_model_file(export_model_path)
export_json_file = os.path.join(FLAGS.export_directory,
                    os.path.splitext(model_basename)[0] + ".json")
json_file = displayer.get_metadata_json()
# Optional: write out the metadata as a json file
with open(export_json_file, "w") as f:
  f.write(json_file)
```

Commit message:

Minor TF Lite documentation updates.
PiperOrigin-RevId: 314643633
Change-Id: Ieaa82849c35d1071d6a750b60c72ca08c47a0db7

tensorflow/lite/g3doc/convert/metadata.md, after:

# Adding metadata to TensorFlow Lite model

Note: TensorFlow Lite Metadata is in experimental (beta) phase.

TensorFlow Lite metadata provides a standard for model descriptions. The
metadata is an important source of knowledge about what the model does and its
input / output information. The metadata consists of both

*   human readable parts which convey the best practice when using the model,
    and
*   machine readable parts that can be leveraged by code generators, such as
    [the TensorFlow Lite Android code generator](../guide/codegen.md).

## Setup the metadata tools

Before adding metadata to your model, you will need to a Python programming
environment setup for running TensorFlow. There is a detailed guide on how to
set this up [here](https://www.tensorflow.org/install).

After setup the Python programming environment, you will need to install
additional tooling:

```sh
pip install tflite-support
```

TensorFlow Lite metadata tooling supports both Python 2 and Python 3.

## Adding metadata

There are three parts to the
[model metadata](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/master/tensorflow/lite/experimental/support/metadata/metadata_schema.fbs):

1.  **Model information** - Overall description of the model as well as items
    such as licence terms.
2.  **Input information** - Description of the inputs and pre-processing
    required such as normalization.
3.  **Output information** - Description of the output and post-processing
    required such as mapping to labels.

### Supported Input / Output types

TensorFlow Lite metadata for input and output are not designed with specific
model types in mind but rather input and output types. It does not matter what
the model functionally does, as long as the input and output types consists of
the following or a combination of the following, it is supported by TensorFlow
Lite metadata:

*   Feature - Numbers which are unsigned integers or float32.
*   Image - Metadata currently supports RGB and greyscale images.
*   Bounding box - Rectangular shape bounding boxes. The schema supports
    [a variety of numbering schemes](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/268853ee81edab09e07f455cc918f7ef9a421485/tensorflow/lite/experimental/support/metadata/metadata_schema.fbs#L165).

### Examples

Note: The export directory specified has to exist before you run the script; it
does not get created as part of the process.

You can find examples on how the metadata should be populated for different
types of models here:

#### Image classification

Download the script
[here](https://github.com/tensorflow/examples/tree/master/lite/examples/image_classification/metadata/metadata_writer_for_image_classifier.py)
and run the script like this:

```sh
python ./metadata_writer_for_image_classifier.py \
    --model_file=./model_without_metadata/mobilenet_v1_0.75_160_quantized.tflite \
    --label_file=./model_without_metadata/labels.txt \
    --export_directory=model_with_metadata
```

The rest of this guide will highlight some of the key sections in the image
classification example to illustrate the key elements.

### Deep dive into the image classification example

#### Model information

Metadata starts by creating a new model info:

```python
from tflite_support import flatbuffers
from tflite_support import metadata as _metadata
from tflite_support import metadata_schema_py_generated as _metadata_fb

""" ... """
"""Creates the metadata for an image classifier."""

# Creates model info.
model_meta = _metadata_fb.ModelMetadataT()
model_meta.name = "MobileNetV1 image classifier"
model_meta.description = ("Identify the most prominent object in the "
                          "image from a set of 1,001 categories such as "
                          "trees, animals, food, vehicles, person etc.")
model_meta.version = "v1"
model_meta.author = "TensorFlow"
model_meta.license = ("Apache License. Version 2.0 "
                      "http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.")
```

#### Input / output information

This section shows you how to describe your model's input and output signature.
This metadata may be used by automatic code generators to create pre- and post-
processing code. To create input or output information about a tensor:

```python
# Creates input info.
input_meta = _metadata_fb.TensorMetadataT()

# Creates output info.
output_meta = _metadata_fb.TensorMetadataT()
```

#### Image input

Image is a common input type for machine learning. TensorFlow Lite metadata
supports information such as colorspace and pre-processing information such as
normalization. The dimension of the image does not require manual specification
since it is already provided by the shape of the input tensor and can be
automatically inferred.

```python
input_meta.name = "image"
input_meta.description = (
    "Input image to be classified. The expected image is {0} x {1}, with "
    "three channels (red, blue, and green) per pixel. Each value in the "
    "tensor is a single byte between 0 and 255.".format(160, 160))
input_meta.content = _metadata_fb.ContentT()
input_meta.content.contentProperties = _metadata_fb.ImagePropertiesT()
input_meta.content.contentProperties.colorSpace = (
    _metadata_fb.ColorSpaceType.RGB)
input_meta.content.contentPropertiesType = (
    _metadata_fb.ContentProperties.ImageProperties)
input_normalization = _metadata_fb.ProcessUnitT()
input_normalization.optionsType = (
    _metadata_fb.ProcessUnitOptions.NormalizationOptions)
input_normalization.options = _metadata_fb.NormalizationOptionsT()
input_normalization.options.mean = [127.5]
input_normalization.options.std = [127.5]
input_meta.processUnits = [input_normalization]
input_stats = _metadata_fb.StatsT()
input_stats.max = [255]
input_stats.min = [0]
input_meta.stats = input_stats
```

#### Label output

Label can be mapped to an output tensor via an associated file using
`TENSOR_AXIS_LABELS`.

```python
# Creates output info.
output_meta = _metadata_fb.TensorMetadataT()
output_meta.name = "probability"
output_meta.description = "Probabilities of the 1001 labels respectively."
output_meta.content = _metadata_fb.ContentT()
output_meta.content.content_properties = _metadata_fb.FeaturePropertiesT()
output_meta.content.contentPropertiesType = (
    _metadata_fb.ContentProperties.FeatureProperties)
output_stats = _metadata_fb.StatsT()
output_stats.max = [1.0]
output_stats.min = [0.0]
output_meta.stats = output_stats
label_file = _metadata_fb.AssociatedFileT()
label_file.name = os.path.basename("your_path_to_label_file")
label_file.description = "Labels for objects that the model can recognize."
label_file.type = _metadata_fb.AssociatedFileType.TENSOR_AXIS_LABELS
output_meta.associatedFiles = [label_file]
```

#### Put it all together

The following code combines the model information with the input and output
information:

```python
# Creates subgraph info.
subgraph = _metadata_fb.SubGraphMetadataT()
subgraph.inputTensorMetadata = [input_meta]
subgraph.outputTensorMetadata = [output_meta]
model_meta.subgraphMetadata = [subgraph]

b = flatbuffers.Builder(0)
b.Finish(
    model_meta.Pack(b),
    _metadata.MetadataPopulator.METADATA_FILE_IDENTIFIER)
metadata_buf = b.Output()
```

Once the data structure is ready, the metadata is written into the TFLite file
via the `populate` method:

```python
populator = _metadata.MetadataPopulator.with_model_file(model_file)
populator.load_metadata_buffer(metadata_buf)
populator.load_associated_files(["your_path_to_label_file"])
populator.populate()
```

#### Verify the metadata

You can read the metadata in a TFLite file using the `MetadataDisplayer`:

```python
displayer = _metadata.MetadataDisplayer.with_model_file(export_model_path)
export_json_file = os.path.join(FLAGS.export_directory,
                    os.path.splitext(model_basename)[0] + ".json")
json_file = displayer.get_metadata_json()
# Optional: write out the metadata as a json file
with open(export_json_file, "w") as f:
  f.write(json_file)
```
